English: I would have so loved to have had lunch with him on the Champs-Elysées and gone to the top of the Eiffel Tower with him, too.

Uw: Ïwïdzæçëlaçûtlüdlthûtstshaph ïdzæçwætlûtsûts üëctl ûChamps-Elyséesz æph ïwïdzæçdzûç tuEiffel Towerts üëctl, tshäv.
(I thought my algorithm didn't allow for a cluster like "ctl." I can't pronounce it, personally. I love the circumpositions, though.)

Tïdl: Ædl qhi itsh tlætsh idl æg æqx ïqh ætsh Champs-Elysées ïd qhïdl ïqx Eiffel Tower æqx tlædl ædl qhi ïk.
(The voiced alveolar affricate just sounds silly this frequently.)

Dzi: Tlëï äéëï dzuaû tlïu tsüï qxeChamps-Elyséesëï tlæqxudza i qxeEiffel Towerau é dzuaädzïu tlëï äéëï i ûudza.
(Circumpositions are so fun. The uvular affricate is kinda weird, but "tlæqxudza" is really fun to say.)

Ügzlïécdlïæäæ: Ähwmeû a'lïuxgéhûçcgheæ'm ææ ïgx Champs-Elysées æ'l ü étshlæ'm Eiffel Toweruxg ïæ ææ ïgx äq.

Ûæ: Aûuiæ æmiaûu uûu aûphui aChamps-Elyséesû aûi qxghû ûi aûiu aûû Eiffel Towermqxæ uûu a.
(Holy cow this one loves the aû diphthong. It shows up everywhere. One word in the dictionary had it 5 times!)

É: Üæ u'wïaæ u û deæ thæ é Champs-Elyséeçü i ëa ü i Eiffel Towerçüé ghvi deæ thüa éaïa.
(This one has a really different literal translation: To have eaten lunch with him on Champs-Elysée-the and gone to top Eifel Tower-the-of too I had loved if-happen-past-perfect. Plus it's ergative-absolutive, which is pretty interesting. It doesn't show up in this text, but it also has the consonant cluster "tlng" a lot which is really hard and fun to say. For example, gratitude is tlnga.)

Iiaéi: Ak'süueümp' ïtsqûe ceudzéi euch'kéïië ach'aiäphmübeuqxhûe üphyûechhy Champs-Elyséesûe ë baüdzzcû ä éië ïtsqûe bü ts'iaphmcû Eiffel Towerûechhy ë baüdzzcû û.
(Literally: Would loved-strongly have I to eat meal-middle-at day-of with him Champs-Elysées-at and to go have to top Eiffel Tower-of with him. Not as weird, but I thought I should show the crazy variety this program can generate. This language has some crazy phonology, though, with 41 consonants; distinguishing voiceless, voiced, aspirated, and ejective plosives; 10 pure vowels and 14 diphthongs; and a (C)V(C)(C) syllable structure, yielding some gnarly consonant clusters, like the ubiquitous "phm" cluster.)